# Getting started section outline

This page describes what is going into the new _Getting started_ section. This page is not intended to be available on docs.ipfs.io; it's just a collection of notes.

## What is the point of this section?

The IPFS Docs need a section to help readers understand the basics of IPFS and why it's important, without being overwhelmed with a wave of information. This section should have all the information it needs in one place; we don't want readers to have to bounce around multiple different sections to understand IPFS. It should also be as interactive as possible. A lot of people learn-by-doing, so we should include as many examples as we can that show what we're talking about.

In summary:

- This section tells new users everything they need to know about IPFS to start building/playing around with stuff.
- Everything is self-contained in this section.
- Readers can learn-by-doing.

## What concepts should we teach?

There is _a lot_ of stuff to learn when it comes to IPFS. While all of it is useful, not everything is useful to new users. Instead, let's focus on explaining the following concepts to new users:

### Content addressing

#### Issues with the current web

Currently, the internet shares files using fixed-addresses. If I want to get a file on your computer I need to know:

    1. The IP address of your computer.
    1. The location of the file.
    1. The filename itself.

This comes with problems. What if your computer is offline? You _could_ store a copy of the file on another computer, but then I'd also need to know the address of _that_ computer, just in case yours goes offline. That backup computer would also need the exact same directory structure as yours. What if you move the file to a different location on your computer? Now the address I have is wrong. And if I found the new address, the address of the file on the backup computer is still wrong, so you'd have to update the location of the file on _that_ computer as well.

There's also an issue with file versioning. How do I know the version of `important.file` is the correct version?

##### Nook's version of War & Peace

There is a competitor to Amazon's Kindle called Nook. Back in 2012, people reading War & Peace noticed some irregularities. Throughout the book the word _kindle_ had been replaced with _nook_. So instead of the file being _kindled_, the fire was _nookd_. Clearly, what had happened was that someone at Nook had ran a lazy find-and-replace, presummably because they had copied a lot of ebooks over from Amazon's Kindle library.

While this is a funny example, it's also a bit scary. Nook users trusted that the books they were getting from the company were the official versions, and hadn't been manipulated in some way. Changing _kindle_ to _nook_ doesn't seem particularly naffarious, but would that be the case if a nation-state was in charge of dispersing information. Governments around the world already censor the information available in history books. In the UK, you'll be had pressed to find any information on the supression of the Irish in English secondary-school history books. Education authorities in the American south glorify union commanders, men who held slaves, and faught for racial segragation.

### Hashing

- What hashing is.
- How it works
  - Simple math example that readers can either follow by clicking on stuff, or by doing the math manually.
- How IPFS uses hashes to create a content identifier.

### Sharing and retrieving files

### Nodes

- They're similar to regular web-servers.
- Files and data flows through nodes.
- Each node lists content is has and can _serve_.
- Nodes also create lists of who has what content. This is called the DHT.
- When you request some data from a node, but that node doesn't have the data, it will ask other nodes for the data. Once it finds a node that has the data you asked for, it will forward you to that node. It will also get the data itself, so that next time you ask it for the data, it can just give it to you instead of running around asking for it. It holds onto this data for a short period of time, unless it is pinned.

The reader can set up a node in this section. The easiest way is gonna be IPFS Desktop.

### Pinning
